Add Ecovacs binary sensors (#30985)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ecovacs.markdown

  - '@edenhaus'
ha_domain: ecovacs
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - vacuum
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `ecovacs` {% term integration %} is the main integration to integrate all [Ecovacs](https://www.ecovacs.com) (Deebot) vacuums. You will need your Ecovacs account information (username, password) to discover and control vacuums in your account.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Additional note: There are some issues during the password encoding. Using some special characters (e.g., `-`) in your password does not work.

## Provided entities

The Ecovacs integration provides a vacuum {% term entity %} for each device that is connected to your Ecovacs account.

Using the vacuum entity, you can monitor and control your Ecovacs Deebot vacuum.

> Additionally, **depending on your model** the integration provides the following entities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, **depending on your model**, the integration provides the following entities:
```

- **Binary sensor**: 

>   - `Mop attached`: On if the mop is attached. Some models reports a state change only if the state of the vacuum has changed. 

Reviewer: I don't understand. You are saying a state change is reported only if the state has changed. Isn't that expected behavior? I'm probably missing something here.

Author: Some models report a state change of the mop attached sensor only when the vacuum entity's state has changed.

For example:
- Vacuum is docked with the mop attached
- You remove the mop (no update will be pushed to HA)
- You start a new cleaning so the state of the vacuum changes to `cleaning`, and also the binary sensor state update to no mop attached.
I assume that the robot has some sort of sleep mode, where he will not check if a mop is attached or not

>   - `Mop attached`: On if the mop is attached. Some models reports a state change only if the state of the vacuum has changed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `Mop attached`: On if the mop is attached. Note: If you do not see the state change to `Mop attached` in Home Assistant, you may need to wake up the robot in order to push the state change. Some models report an entity state change only if the overall status of the vacuum has changed. For example, if the overall state changes from `sleep` to `cleaning`. 
```
Thank you for the explanation! So maybe something along those lines?
